margin-top
margin-right
margin-bottom
margin-left

All the margin properties can have the following values:

auto - the browser calculates the margin
length - specifies a margin in px, pt, cm, etc.
% - specifies a margin in % of the width of the containing element
inherit - specifies that the margin should be inherited from the parent element
Tip: Negative values are allowed.

margin: 25px 50px 75px 100px;
top margin is 25px
right margin is 50px
bottom margin is 75px
left margin is 100px

Margin Collapse
Top and bottom margins of elements are sometimes collapsed into a single margin that is equal to the largest of the two margins.

This does not happen on left and right margins! Only top and bottom margins!


padding-top
padding-right
padding-bottom
padding-left
All the padding properties can have the following values:

length - specifies a padding in px, pt, cm, etc.
% - specifies a padding in % of the width of the containing element
inherit - specifies that the padding should be inherited from the parent element
Note: Negative values are not allowed.

padding: 25px 50px 75px 100px;

The height and width properties may have the following values:

auto - This is default. The browser calculates the height and width
length - Defines the height/width in px, cm, etc.
% - Defines the height/width in percent of the containing block
initial - Sets the height/width to its default value
inherit - The height/width will be inherited from its parent value

Note: Remember that the height and width properties do not include padding, borders, or margins! They set the height/width of the area inside the padding, border, and margin of the element!


CSS has the following outline properties:

outline-style
outline-color
outline-width
outline-offset
outline

Note: Outline differs from borders! Unlike border, the outline is drawn outside the element's border, and may overlap other content. Also, the outline is NOT a part of the element's dimensions; the element's total width and height is not affected by the width of the outline.

The outline-style property specifies the style of the outline, and can have one of the following values:

dotted - Defines a dotted outline
dashed - Defines a dashed outline
solid - Defines a solid outline
double - Defines a double outline
groove - Defines a 3D grooved outline
ridge - Defines a 3D ridged outline
inset - Defines a 3D inset outline
outset - Defines a 3D outset outline
none - Defines no outline
hidden - Defines a hidden outline

The outline-width property specifies the width of the outline, and can have one of the following values:

thin (typically 1px)
medium (typically 3px)
thick (typically 5px)
A specific size (in px, pt, cm, em, etc)

The outline-color property is used to set the color of the outline.

The color can be set by:

name - specify a color name, like "red"
HEX - specify a hex value, like "#ff0000"
RGB - specify a RGB value, like "rgb(255,0,0)"
HSL - specify a HSL value, like "hsl(0, 100%, 50%)"
invert - performs a color inversion (which ensures that the outline is visible, regardless of color background)

The outline property is a shorthand property for setting the following individual outline properties:

outline-width
outline-style (required)
outline-color
The outline property is specified as one, two, or three values from the list above. The order of the values does not matter.

CSS Outline Offset
The outline-offset property adds space between an outline and the edge/border of an element. The space between an element and its outline is transparent.

The following example specifies an outline 15px outside the border edge: